In this section we'll learn how to create a navigation menu like this one which can have menus and sub
menus and also mega menus. And we'll also take some time to learn how to make this menu more accessible.
By accessible I mean that you can navigate through it using the keyboard. I'm just using my keyboard
here to navigate through the links.
So let's close this one and let's, always make sure you have your MAMP server is open and I'm gonna
change to my theme.
And start "npm start".
And let's go to the admin page in new tab. admin, admin. In the appearance menu here go to menus. And you will find this page
where you can drag and drop pages or posts or you can create custom links and create a menu. So you can
add a page here.
And position it and make a submenu and save.
But the question is how to display this menu in your websites. And the process is similar to adding
this sidebar here.
We first registered a sidebar and then we drag and drop some widgets. And then we displayed the sidebar.
So let's do this.
But this time for menus. So let's go to our folder and create a new file in the lib folder. And call it "navigation"
and make sure you include this file in
functions.php. So let's do that.
And inside navigation let's open PHP tags and register our first menu.
So let's create a new function and prefix. Let's call it "register_menus". And to register a menu
we need to hook into an action called "init". And let's give it the function that we will create now.
So inside this function we'll call, like the register_sidebar(), we'll call a function called "register_nav _menus()". And
it takes an array of locations. And we'll see what locations mean in a moment. So let's create an array and
and inside the array we'll create a location called "main-menu".
And this is the key and the value is a string that will appear in the admin area.
So let's call it "Main Menu".
And of course any string we type it needs to be escaped and translated. So let's use esc_html__
esc_html__
and then the string and then the theme domain.
So let's save and let's see now our menus page in the admin area.
So let's refresh and as you can see we now have the option to assign this menu to this location, main
menu. And we can actually have many locations so let's define another one. Let's duplicate this and maybe
"footer-menu"
And now have "Main Menu" or "Footer Menu".
So let's assign this to the main menu and save.
So we now have a menu created and assigned to the main menu location. And the location is a place in
the theme where you will display this menu.
So we have the main menu which will be here and will not do that but you can have another menu, the footer
menu which you can display somewhere in the footer.
So we need now to display the main menu in this area in the header. So let's go to the header.php. And
this would be similar to that dynamic_sidebar() function.
So let's first create
create a DIV with class of "c-navigation" and that's oc course for my styling.
And inside of it another one
"o-container".
And then let's create a HTML5 NAV tag.
And make sure you use this tag for any navigation menu.
So I'm gonna give it a class "header-nav".
And it takes a "role" of "navigation".
And it takes an attribute called "aria-label".
And this is for accessibility for people who use screen readers. And inside the attribute value you just
describe what this navigation is.
So in our case it's the main navigation.
Let's open PHP and
"esc_html_e" and type "Main Navigation" and the domain which is "_themename".
And let's close the NAV tag.
And finally let's display our menu. So to display our menu we use a function called wp_nav_menu().
And it takes some arguments, an array of arguments. And the first, the most important argument
is the "theme_location".
So in our case theme location is the key that we gave here.
So "main-menu"
So let's save now and and see our website.
So as you can see we have our menu items here.
What else you know, we have "Filtered" before each title exactly like the posts. So remember in the child theme when we
added a filter to filter the post title and then we added the string.
This happened to the navigation items
title too.
And the reason is a navigation
item is a special kind of post.
So I'm having a guide here about post types and we'll learn more about post types later but I just need
to mention an important information that WordPress  has many types of content.
And these are described as post types.
So let's go to the backend here.
And we know that we can create posts and pages. And both of them are post types.
So the post is a post type of type post and the pages are post types of type page and they are stored
in the same table in the database. And they are differentiated by a column called "post_type".
And the purpose of this is to categorize what type of content are we dealing with.
So we can have posts and we can have pages. And later we'll learn how to add more like a portfolio items
and stuff like that.
But WordPress comes with default post types which are posts and pages as we mentioned and attachments and revisions
and navigation menu.
So actually each one of these items is considered as post. And its title is the navigation label. And
this is the reason why we had the "Filtered" text before the navigation label fn the menu item.
But also as you can notice we have a twice here sometimes.
And the reason is it also got filtered when you added a page or a post in the navigation menu. So it's
added here and then we saved. So the title was saved as "Filtered blog".
And then it got filtered again when we displayed it here.
So "Filtered Filtered Blog".
So that was just a quick note. So let's add our child theme to our workspace.
And then let's remove the filter. And refresh. And I will have it removed from some links but others
is still there because it's already saved to the database.
So the only way to remove them is to remove them from the title here.
So let's create a new menu actually instead of modifying this.
And let's give it a name.
And let's just add some pages.
And save.
And before saving
assign it to the main menu.
And now we have our menu.
So I already have my menu style here. But I just want to show you what would it look like without
styling. So my styling is at the "source/assets/scss"
and then "components" and then "_header.scss".
So let's remove the styling for the header, for the navigation.
And this is how
it will look like. It's a very simple unordered list.
So we have a UL here with an ID and the menu. And you can change these by the way
in the wp-nav-menu() function. But I'm just gonna use these classes.
And then we have for each item an LI  and the link.
And if you have a sub menu we'll have some extra classes here.
So we have a "menu-item-has-children". And if we open this LI in addition to the link we'll have
another
another UL with a class "sub-menu" and it will contain the other menu items.
The children menu items.
So in the next lecture I'll walk you through how I styled these menu items. But I won't type the whole the CSS
on screen so just take a quick look and then we will do some other stuff.
See you in next lecture.